Restaurant’s Easy One Solution will offer innovative point of sale (POS) system solution. The Restaurant’s Easy One Solution will be the most important communication system and a must for the restaurant business. The POS product will meet all the needs of any restaurant by using the most advanced current technology on the market. The easy to learn and comprehend built-in tools and features will give a solid support for companies to move forward and excel in their industry. The POS system will be a Cloud Computing based solution that will offer the freedom of mobility to its users. The system will be the virtual representation of any restaurant. Every entity and every workflow in a restaurant will have its textual and/or visual representation on the system. The virtual restaurant will connect all the entities with the workflows, resulting in an easy method to follow and monitor the business’ lifecycle. At any moment the lifecycle could be broken into any period of time for a user to easily monitoring the state of the business.   

Within the system, a waiter who is the front line of any restaurant, will be able to open a tab for a table and enter the order. If necessary the server will be able entering additional orders for the same table. Whenever the customers are ready to pay, the waiter will be able to print out the bill and finalize the order. Any waiter will benefit in many ways if using the Restaurant’s Easy One Solution. The system will save the time and hassle keeping track of a note pad and a pen by saving all the waiter’s notes and orders only on entering a password in the system. The system will notify when a particular order is ready to be taken to the customer. The notification will save the waiter time going multiple times back and forth to the ready orders section of the restaurant. In that way the waiter will have more time to stay on the floor with the customers.

Bartenders and waiters have a quite similar workflow. The bartender will use the POS system in the same way the waiter will do, but with a minor difference. The bartender will open tabs on a person’s name rather than on a table number/name. The types of orders that the bartender will be taking from the customers might be absolutely the same the waiter will take, that will depend on the restaurant. Though, the waiter might have a function of making the drink orders for the waiters as well as for the customers sitting on the bar. The bartender will not be taking the waiters’ drink orders, rather than she will be receiving them instantaneously when the waiters enter the orders for the tables in the system. Thus, the bartender will use the POS system to communicate back whenever drinks ordered by the waiters are ready. That is a section in the workflow where could be noted how the POS system becomes a main communication point between the restaurant employees.

The chef and the kitchen employees are the core of the restaurant. They have to communicate with everyone in the site. Often the chef updates the daily menu, which will be released through the POS system. The kitchen employees are also responsible to keep everyone else posted if one or another reason a meal becomes unavailable. In that case every employee in the restaurant will be notified with the appropriate message. The manager will know if further action will be necessary to take. The manger might need to make an order to a supplier or to resolve a possible problem in the kitchen. The internal delivery employee will be notified with the appropriate message reporting the current availability of products necessary for preparing the currently unavailable meal. The servers and the bartender will also be notified in order to stay current and stop taking orders for that particular meal. Both the manager and the internal delivery person will communicate back to the rest of the staff with the appropriate message when external or internal delivery will be made and the inventory system will be automatically updated.

The kitchen staff will also be using the POS system for referencing the restaurant’s cookbook. In that way space for the restaurant’s library will be completely avoided and will promote clean working environment. Moreover, the kitchen staff will communicate back to the servers and the bartenders whenever an order is ready to take out to the customers. Every unnecessary hassle of checking back and forth if the food is ready will be avoided. The food also will always be fresher and warmer when served to the customers. 

Party planners, reservationists, and catering people will be using the POS system to schedule events and reservations according to the restaurant’s policy. The reservationist will be able to allocate tables and put name and contact information of the person that will be organizing the party. The reservationist also will be able to accept, process, and note the partial credit amount based on a percentage from the overall price of the party. 

The hosts will be using the POS system for entering the name of a person from a party that just walks in the restaurant. In that way every host working in the restaurant will be able to refer to the same person when asking for more information or accommodating the party after their table is prepared. The restaurant’s waiting-list will be kept in the system too. The names and the contact information will be easily acceptable to everyone responsible for contacting the people on the list.

Also the POS system will be used by the take out delivery employees. They will be receiving a notice whenever a take-out order is ready as well as they will be reporting whenever an order has been delivered.

The inventory person will be using the system to keep track of all the supplies in the restaurant. She or he will be able to run a variety reports that will be used for analysis of the state of the business.

Any miscellaneous type of employee will be a part of the POS system as well as anybody working in the restaurant. For example the physical security employees will login and logout for indicating their time shift as well as they will be able to write reports to the manager.

The managers will have an access to most of the information in the POS system. The manager will be able to keep track of all the activities in the restaurant. The manger will be using the system to communicate messages to employees, observe the restaurant’s workflow, cash flow and receive any information important to manage the restaurant. The system will be the best advisor and resource for managers to run the restaurant in an innovative and professional manner at the same time. Furthermore, managers will be using the system to gain actual data and analyze the restaurant work and make reports for the restaurant’s owner/executive board of the company.

Restaurant’s Easy One Solution will be broken down into many modules that will be possible to add seamlessly depending on the restaurant’s needs. The already mentioned inventory module, the employees’ time sheet module, and a pay-roll module are only some of the modules that will help any restaurant company to be on top of its business. With this POS system the management of the restaurant will be able to focus on the actual matter of the business.

